Hardware
For building the hardware you need an Arduino Uno R3, a sd card adapter, a mpu6050 breadboard pcb, 3 opto coupler circuts. (See schematics in Hardware folder)
Not all Features of the software can be used on this development platform. But for testing it's allright.

Software
The system is build on a arduino ide with version 1.5.x. The needed hardware description for the original board, and all needed libraries are in the sketchbook folder. So you simply have to set the sketchbook in the ide to the checkout sketchbook folder and restart the IDE.

There are several folders and sketches.
bootloader
  Here you find the sources of the used bootloader of the OSeaM Board. Its a bootloader for loding new firmware from an fat16 formattet sd card. It's build upon the 2boots bootloader. You will needed a linux system to build the bootloader.
  
documentation
  Here you find some documentation of the hardware logger, like the manual or a short description.
  
Hardware
  All hardwaer related stuff. Schematic, 3D, Images of the Prototyp
  
Sketchbook
  This folder is the sketchbook folder for the arduino IDE. Here you find several sketches
  
  Blink
    a simple Blink programm for the OSeaM Board.

  calculateBootloaderCRC
    calculating the crc checksum for the bootloader of the OSeaM Board.
  
  hardware
    hardware definition and core files of the OSeaM board. Due to a bug to the arduino IDE you must copy the bootloader/OSeaM folder to the <arduino>/hardware/arduino/avr/bootloaders folder. (With the OSeaM subfolder)
	
  libraries
    all needed libraries for building the logger.

  nBit_read
    Testprogram receiving serial data with the 9N1 protokoll needed for seatalk
	
  nBit_Send
    Testprogram sending serial data with the 9N1 protokoll needed for seatalk 
  
  OpenSeaMap
    the main project of the logger

  SD_FAT_Tests
    testing of the SdFat library

  SD_TESTS
    testing of the internal arduino sd library (not used in the project due to some bugs...)

  SendSeatalk
    sending seatalk messages to the logger.
	
  SimpleLog
    sending special formatet messages to a terminal
  
  TwoSerialTest
    Testprogram to test the receiving of bytes from 2 indipendent serial.
	
WebConfig
  This is a simple php webpage for creating a config file for the logger. 